Welcome back.
In this video we're going to talk about a new constructor function that as 2015 gives us to help manage
asynchronous code.
And that is the promise constructor.
Before we talk about how to use the promise constructor Let's quickly review what promises are a promise
is a one time guaranteed return of some future value.
The idea here is that we do not know what the value of some asynchronous operation will be or when it
will finish executing.
So we create a placeholder for what that value will be when the value is figured out.
The promise is either resolved.
We also call this fulfilled or rejected promises are a friendly way to refactor Mesi callback code and
they've actually been in existence for quite a while.
Yes 2015 is a little late to the game to understand promises a bit better.
Think of this story you're hungry so you go to McDonald's and you walk up to the counter to order some
food.
Once you place your order you're given a ticket and the person behind you goes next you can think of
the ticket here as a promise.
Instead of standing at the counter and stopping other people from ordering which would be synchronous
or blocking code you move out of the way so that other people can order after a certain amount of time
your ticket will be called.
And one of two things will happen.
You'll either get your food.
We call this resolving a promise or you will not get your food.
We call this rejecting a promise.
Regardless once your promise has been rejected or resolved it is done and you give back your ticket.
The idea here is that we have to create a new promise if we want to perform the same asynchronous operation
again this is a big difference between promises and callbacks.
So we mentioned that promises have been around for a while and you might have actually used them without
even knowing it.
Jay Querrey implemented its own version of promises a while back called Deford's and then the latest
version 3 they support native promises.
You might have also used libraries like Bluebird or Q When working with node or angular handle asynchronous
code.
These libraries also use promises.
So now that ios 2015 provide the needed way for us to create promises heres how we do it.
Promises are created with the new keyword and the promise constructor accepts a callback function with
two parameters resolved and reject.
We can call these parameters whenever we like but resolve and reject are the most common resolve and
reject our functions to be run.
If the promise is resolved or rejected Let's see what that would look like.
With a simple example of asynchronous code a set time.
What we're doing here is returning the new promise which will run a set time out and after 1 second
if the result of math that random is greater than point five we resolve with the output yes.
Otherwise we reject with the output of no.
The idea here is that we're running some asynchronous operation and we want to wait until it resolves
or rejects this function or return a promise to us which can be resolved using the dot then method if
the promise is rejected.
We can handle it with a dot catch method that then accepts the callback function with a value passed
to the resolve function and that catch accepts a callback function with the value passed to the reject
function.
With useful about promises is that each DUP then returns another promise to us which has a dot then
method.
We call this undoubtable we can change promises together and return values from one promise to another.
What we're going to try to do is build an array of years that movies were released and print out the
array.
When we're done building it up we'll use the only API to do this.
If you remember from equerry Ajax methods return a promise to us so we can call that then directly on
the result of the Ajax method return to us.
Let's do that with the only API to get some movie data.
We'll then return another AJAX call as a promise and when it's done being resolved we'll print out the
movie years.
Remember this entire operation is asynchronous so all done is going to print out before the years are
ready.
Try this example in the chrome console so you can see what's going on and try to add some more promises
and keep changing them.
You to me uses Jake where he directly on their website so you can write or copy and paste the code examples
directly into the chrome console.
When you're on Tommy's Web site you can also do this on the jacquard Web site and quite a few others.
Most of the time you'll be using existing libraries that return promises like Jake Query and then managing
those promises with chains of Dopp that it's not very common that you'll be using the native.
Yes 20:15 promise constructor in the next video will show you how to resolve multiple promises.
As an array using promised not all which you will use quite frequently with libraries frameworks and
the newer E.S. 2017 async function.
See the.